The examples in this directory include (1) simple shearing of a box
and (2) slip on a through-going, vertical, strike-slip fault in a box
that is 6 km x 6 km x 4 km with linear hexahedral cells that have
edges 1.0 km long.

The box spans the volume:

  -3 km <= x <= +3 km
  -3 km <= y <= +3 km
  -6 km <= z <= 0  km.

The mesh is generated using CUBIT. Journal files are included and are
annotated to guide you through the GUI to replicate the commands in
the journal files should you prefer to use the GUI.

NOTE: Importing Exodus files into PyLith requires the netcdf
library. This is included in the PyLith binary distribution. If you
are compiling from the source code, you will want to use the
--enable-cubit option to turn on importing meshes from CUBIT (you must
have the netcdf library and header files installed when configuring
PyLith).

You can examine the Exodus file exported from CUBIT using the ncdump
command.

See the configuration files shearxy.cfg and dislocation.cfg on
instructions on how to run these simulations. The configuration files
also contain information about the simulation parameters.


DESCRIPTION OF FILES

box_hex8_1000m.exo - Exodus file containing mesh exported from CUBIT

dislocation.cfg - Simulation parameters for fault slip problem

finalslip.spatialdb - Spatial database for spatial variation of final slip

finalslip_rupture.spatialdb - Spatial database for spatial variation
of final slip for earthquake rupture in Savage-Prescot type problem.

fixeddisp_shear.spatialdb - Spatial database for spatial variation of
the displacement field in the Dirichlet (prescribed displacement)
boundary conditions for the shear problem

geometry.jou - CUBIT journal file (script) to generate solid model geometry

gravity.cfg - Simulation parameters for gravitational body forces problem

mat_elastic.spatialdb - Spatial database specifying the parameters for
the physical properties of a 3-D elastic, isotropic material.

mat_viscoelastic.spatialdb - Spatial database specifying the parameters for
the physical properties of a 3-D Maxwell viscoelastic, isotropic
material.

mesh_hex8_1000m.cub - Native CUBIT file containing finite-element mesh

mesh_hex8_1000m.jou - CUBIT journal file (script) to run geometry
script, generate the mesh, create blocks and nodesets, and export the
mesh to an Exodus file

pylithapp.cfg - General simulation parameters for the mesh

savageprescott.cfg - Simulation parameters for Savage-Prescott type problem

shearxy.cfg - Simulation parameters for the shear problem

sliprate_creep.spatialdb - Spatial database for spatial variation
of slip rate for creepin portion of fault in Savage-Prescot type problem.

sliptime.spatialdb - Spatial database for spatial variation of slip
initiation time
