This set of examples is meant to demonstrate the use of body forces and
initial stresses for a 2D problem. The example simply consists of an
elastic block contained within a viscoelastic material of higher density.
The surface of the block is coincident with the surface of the viscoelastic
material initially. Depending on how we set up the problem, the elastic
block will 'float' upwards due to the density contrast. There are 7
different simulations, which should generally be performed in order:

1.  pylith grav_stress.cfg
    This will run a single elastic time step to compute the stresses due to
    'turning on' gravity. These stresses will be used as initial stresses
    in one of the other simulations. To convert the stresses PyLith outputs
    to a spatial database of initial stresses, run the stress2spatialdb.py
    script:
    ./stress2spatialdb.py

2.  pylith grav_stress_infin_nois.cfg
    This will run a time-dependent simulation (100 years) that does not include
    initial stresses. As a result, there is a large intitial downward movement
    of the entire mesh at the beginning of the simulation.

3.  pylith grav_stress_infin_is1.cfg
    This will run a time-dependent simulation (100 years) that uses the
    initial stresses computed in step 1 to exactly balance the imposed
    gravitational body forces. Since the stresses are in equilibrium, no
    deformation should occur. This simulation uses the default infinitesimal
    strain formulation.

4.  pylith grav_stress_infin_is2.cfg
    This will run a time-dependent simulation (100 years) that uses initial
    stresses computed assuming a constant density equivalent to the density
    of the viscoelastic material. The resulting stress state will reflect
    the density contrast between the block and the surrounding material.
    This simulation uses the default infinitesimal strain formulation.

5.  pylith grav_stress_infin_is3.cfg
    This simulation is identical to simulation #3, except that it uses a
    smaller time step size and runs for a shorter period of time. For the
    infinitesimal strain solution used here, this has no real effect on
    the solution.

6.  pylith grav_stress_finite_nois.cfg
    This will run a time-dependent simulation (100 years) that does not include
    initial stresses. As a result, there is a large intitial downward movement
    of the entire mesh at the beginning of the simulation. This version uses a
    finite strain formulation.

7.  pylith grav_stress_finite_is1.cfg
    This will run a time-dependent simulation (100 years) that uses the
    initial stresses computed in step 1 to exactly balance the imposed
    gravitational body forces. Since the stresses are in equilibrium, no
    deformation should occur. This simulation uses a finite strain
    formulation.

8.  pylith grav_stress_finite_is2.cfg
    This will run a time-dependent simulation (100 years) that uses initial
    stresses computed assuming a constant density equivalent to the density
    of the viscoelastic material. The resulting stress state will reflect
    the density contrast between the block and the surrounding material.
    This simulation uses a finite strain formulation, but the solution is
    unstable because the time step size is too large. The solution is
    affected by the 'drunken sailor' instability. According to the Courant
    condition described by Kaus et al. (PEPI, 2010), the time step size of
    1.0 years is much too large.

9.  pylith grav_stress_finite_is3.cfg
    This simulation is identical to simulation #6, except that it uses a
    time step size of 0.025 years rather than 1.0 years.  According to the
    Courant condition described by Kaus et al. (PEPI, 2010), this time step
    size is smaller than the stable time step size.

The results of all the different simulations may be viewed using
ParaView. We provide ParaView state files (view_deform.pvsm and
view_deform_unscaled.pvsm), which you can load in ParaView to view the
solution over the domain. The difference in the two state files is that the
unscaled version does not scale the velocity vectors so you can see the
velocity orientations for the entire simulation. The visualization is intended
primarily for steps 4, 5, 8, and 9, in which there is significant deformation.
