In this directory are files that allow a somewhat kludgy method of
generating Green's functions using PyLith. The impulses are unit amounts of
strike-slip applied on the vertices of a fault, and the responses are
displacements at the vertices on the ground surface. The method used is as
follows:

The entire problem is treated as a time-dependent elastic problem with
time-varying slip. At each time step, a unit slip is applied for the
desired impulse. For time step zero, this is all that needs to be done.
For subsequent time steps, it is necessary to remove the applied impulse
from the previous step. This is done by applying a unit negative impulse.
It is necessary to generate a sequence of spatial databases to specify the
slip at each time step. These are contained in the directory gfspatialdb.

To run the problem, simpyly type:

pylith gftest.cfg

When it has finished running, you will have a number of VTK files in the
gfimpulses directory that show what the applied fault slip was for each
time step. In the gfresponses directory you will have all of the resulting
displacements on the ground surface. The time step number for each of these
files indicates the impulse number to which they correspond.

This method is not very sophisticated, and the results have not been
tested, but it may provide a simple method for generating Green's functions
without too much work. The main shortcoming at present is that the
responses are only generated at the specified set of vertices. If users
need responses at locations that do not correspond to one of the vertices in
the mesh, they will need to do their own interpolation. In the future, we
plan to provide a method that will allow PyLith to do the interpolation.
Also, this method does not provide a method for determining the seismic
moment for each impulse. To do this it would be necessary to integrate over
the fault elements attached to each impulse vertex. At present, it is
probably easiest to do this by postprocessing using the fault mesh.
