This is a simple example showing how to create a NURBS surface using
Cubit, given a set of regularly-spaced data, such as might be obtained
from a DEM. We create the surface as a net surface (see Cubit
documentation); this requires either a mapped mesh or a set of
intersecting lines (u-lines and v-lines). In either case, the
intersecting lines must form a logically structured quadrilateral
mesh. The Python script, dem2lines.py, creates the lines and resamples
the original data outside a specified region for which full resolution
is desired. This is useful because using a full-resolution surface for
the entire region can be quite memory intensive.

The steps for creating the NURBS surface are as follows:

1.  We start with a very coarse DEM of Mt. Ruapehu volcano in New
Zealand (NZMG coordinates) in ASCII format. Note that the DEM must be in
ASCII format and it must be ordered in either rows or columns. The DEM used
in this example was produced using the GMT grd2xyz utility.

2.  The parameters for the Python script are contained in the file
dem2lines.cfg. In this file we specify the name of the input
file, the name of an output VTK file (for viewing the resampled DEM
using a package such as ParaView), and prefixes for the output u-lines
and v-lines.  The x_min, x_max, etc. values indicate the region over
which full resolution is desired. Outside this region, resampling
occurs at skip_interval, 2*skip_interval, etc. until the edge of the
DEM is reached.

3.  Once the parameters have been set, run the script:

./dem2lines.py

This will produce the file ruapehu-nzmg-1km-resampled.vtk, and will
also populate the ulines and vlines directories. You can visualize the
VTK file to make sure it looks OK.

4.  Once you have created the u-lines and v-lines, you must create a
journal file that Cubit can use to create the NURBS surface. Each file
in the ulines and vlines directories is a separate Cubit command to
create a single spline curve. To create the desired surface, we first
create a ulines.jou file and a vlines.jou file to execute each of
these. We then create a mktopo.jou file that executes these two
journal files and then creates the NURBS surface (ruapehu_topo.sab).
You can create the surface yourself by running Cubit and playing back the
'mktopo.jou' file.

5.  Once the surface has been created, you can import it in future
Cubit sessions and use it just as you would any surface created within
Cubit.  For example, to use this surface within Cubit, you would type:

import acis 'ruapehu_topo.sab'
