This directory contains a set of 3 3D viscoelastic example problems.
All problems share the same mesh and material properties, with the
only differences being in the boundary conditions.  The mesh consists
of two quadratic hexahedral elements.  This set of examples is exactly
analogous to the twohex8 examples except that the elements are 27-node
hexes.

All of these examples are run for 10 time steps (0.1 year steps), plus the
elastic solution.  The information describing the examples may be divided
into five groups:

1.  Mesh generation files used by Cubit: geometry.jou and mesh_twohex27.jou.

2.  Mesh produced by Cubit, including blocks and nodesets: twohex27.exo.

3.  Parameter settings common to all examples:  described in file
pylithapp.cfg.

4.  Material properties common to all examples:  described in the
database file matprops.spatialdb.

5.  Example-specific parameters and boundary condition specifications.

The examples and associated files are:

1.  axialdisp:  Axial displacements are applied to the left and right
sides of the mesh.
  a.  axialdisp.cfg:  Parameter settings for this problem.
  b.  axialdisp.spatialdb:  Boundary condition database for this
      problem.

2.  sheardisp:  Shear displacements are applied to the left and right
sides of the mesh.
  a.  sheardisp.cfg:  Parameter settings for this problem.
  b.  sheardisp.spatialdb:  Boundary condition database for this
      problem.

3.  dislocation:  Fault displacements are applied between the two
elements, while the left and right corners are fixed in x, y, and z.
  a.  dislocation.cfg:  Parameter settings for this problem.
  b.  dislocation_slip.spatialdb:  Fault slip database for this problem.
  d.  dislocation_sliptime.spatialdb:  Fault slip time database for this
      problem.

All of the files are documented.  The 'pylithapp.cfg' file is read
automatically when running PyLith.  To add to or override these
settings, you may place an additional .cfg file on the command line.
To run the examples, you can type:
pylith axialdisp.cfg
pylith sheardisp.cfg
pylith dislocation.cfg

Each of these commands will produce a set of VTK files (including some that
will be produced for each time step), which may be viewed with visualization
packages such as ParaView or Mayavi.
